Additional infos about adaptive index granularity. (#643)
ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs: docs/en/guides/improving-query-performance/sparse-primary-indexes/sparse-primary-indexes-design.md

:::note
- The last granule (granule 1082) "contains" less than 8192 rows.

> - We mentioned in the beginning of this guide in the "DDL Statement Details", that we disabled [adaptive index granularity](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019/#experimental-features-1) (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We mentioned in the beginning of this guide in the "DDL Statement Details", that we disabled [adaptive index granularity](/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019.md/#experimental-features-1) (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible).
```

  
  Therefore all granules (except the last one) of our example table have the same size.

> - For tables with adaptive index granularity (index granularity is adaptive by [default](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree/#index_granularity_bytes)) the size of some granules can be less than 8192 rows depending on the row data sizes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For tables with adaptive index granularity (index granularity is adaptive by [default](/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md/#index_granularity_bytes)) the size of some granules can be less than 8192 rows depending on the row data sizes. 
```

<img src={require('./images/sparse-primary-indexes-03b.png').default} class="image"/>

:::note

> - For tables with [adaptive index granularity](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019/#experimental-features-1) there is also one "final" additional mark stored in the primary index that records the values of the primary key columns of the last table row, but because we disabled adaptive index granularity (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible), the index of our example table doesn't include this final mark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For tables with [adaptive index granularity](/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019.md/#experimental-features-1), there is also one "final" additional mark stored in the primary index that records the values of the primary key columns of the last table row, but because we disabled adaptive index granularity (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible), the index of our example table doesn't include this final mark.
```

All the 8192 rows belonging to the located uncompressed granule are then streamed into ClickHouse for further processing.

:::note

> - For tables with [wide format](/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md/#mergetree-data-storage) and without [adaptive index granularity](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019/#experimental-features-1), ClickHouse uses <font face = "monospace">.mrk</font> mark files as visualised above, that contain entries with two 8 byte long addresses per entry. These entries are physical locations of granules that all have the same size.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For tables with [wide format](/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md/#mergetree-data-storage) and without [adaptive index granularity](/docs/en/whats-new/changelog/2019.md/#experimental-features-1), ClickHouse uses <font face = "monospace">.mrk</font> mark files as visualised above, that contain entries with two 8 byte long addresses per entry. These entries are physical locations of granules that all have the same size.  
```

>  Index granularity is adaptive by [default](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree/#index_granularity_bytes), but for our example table we disabled adaptive index granularity (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible). Our table is using wide format because the size of the data is larger than [min_bytes_for_wide_part](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree/#min_bytes_for_wide_part) (which is 10 MB by default for self-managed clusters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Index granularity is adaptive by [default](/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md/#index_granularity_bytes), but for our example table we disabled adaptive index granularity (in order to simplify the discussions in this guide, as well as make the diagrams and results reproducible). Our table is using wide format because the size of the data is larger than [min_bytes_for_wide_part](/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md/#min_bytes_for_wide_part) (which is 10 MB by default for self-managed clusters).
```
